welcome back everyone last you're gonna
be hearing for me and the Chinese
sayings podcast for a while this is the
season finale time to disappear for a
while like last time go take a little
break maybe had to Mustique for a while
to recharge Lazlo Montgomery here with
another musical Cheung you a Chinese
saying I'll be honest with you I had to
get a spatula and scrape the bottom of a
pot here I actually have about four
remaining Chinese sayings here that got
slaughtered in the musical category but
after reading the stories I have to be
honest nothing got me excited but this
one today stars master Kong himself
Konza better known in the
english-speaking world as Confucius
that's the one I decided to go with and
I could guarantee unless you already
know the story from the loan you the
Analects of Confucius you won't have a
clue what these four characters mean now
this one today has a four character and
a 6 character version it's one of those
but either way you're good so let's tell
the 4 character version first and then
in a minute I'll get to the deluxe
version that offers the 50% premium on
the number of Chinese characters used in
the idiom
so our Cheung you this week is butcher
roll wait let's get right on it
boo means no we're not jerk means to
know the verb Bulger don't know and roll
means meat beef pork whatever and wait
you may recall from back in season one
way ruiji late tastes like chicken ribs
wait means the taste of something so
bougie roll wait no no meat taste okay
something has to do with not knowing the
taste of me to that much we can tell but
what does that mean well I'll tell you
as I said the story comes from the
Analects Thaler knew one of the four
books that were the main thing you had
to memorize inside out if you had any
aspirations whatsoever to serve in the
Imperial bureaucracy because Confucius
is in this story we know
right away it takes place during the
twin show or spring and autumn period
the first half of the second half of the
Jo dynasty to put it another way if you
remember from a couple episodes ago II
go to a cheap confucius was from the
state of Lu in Shandong their next-door
neighbor to the north was the state of
Qi and in the air 517 BCE
Confucius decided one day to go visit Qi
and do little studying at one of the
local schools there as Confucius
approached the outskirts of the Qi
capital city of lien suit he heard a
musical sound coming from the forest
where he was walking and he stopped
looked around and he saw an old man the
old guy was performing a kind of music
not too many people listen to today but
this shawl music supposedly went all the
way back to the Emperor Xuan one of the
mythical five Emperor's it was performed
in this epic style that combined poetry
music and dance and would lionize the
good deeds of the mythical Emperor Xuan
there are lots of references to this
ancient shawl music that was played at
the imperial court but as i said it all
but died out and all that's left is what
we read about none of the records or cds
survived and the reason we know this is
because south west of the ancient xi
capital at lien suit as present dates
the ball in Shandong a steely was
unearthed at a temple site during the
Ching dynasty that claimed Confucius had
visited once and listened to shawl music
there well as the story goes so
enthusiastic and admirer of this ancient
style of music did Confucius become when
he chanced upon this performer there he
couldn't stop listening he kept going
back to this place where the old man
performed for three solid months to take
it all in so entranced and enamoured was
Confucius with this man performing shawl
music it said he didn't even know the
taste of meat meaning so mesmerised was
he by the music the smell of roasting
meat wafting around him
went unnoticed Bulger he didn't know no
way the fragrance of the meat and
because he binge down shallow music for
three months we also have the deluxe
version of this Chinese saying son
Europe sign means three and yep means
month so Sanya three months Buju role
wait didn't know the taste of meat in
other words if someone was grilling up a
steak or lamb kebabs or something like
that no matter how pungent and
tantalizing the smell was it went
completely unnoticed by the great sage
because he was too enraptured by the
sound of the shawl music you know not
everyone could afford meat back then so
it sort of became a metaphor to describe
something valuable that you don't get to
enjoy regularly unless you were a strict
vegetarian having meat was special and
not an everyday thing so that's why it's
particularly worth noting that even
something like meat confucius didn't
even notice so when you're talking to
someone about your friend or husband or
whoever and that they've been utterly
captivated by something to the extent
that it appears as if they have lost
touch with reality and can focus on
nothing else their Facebook page or some
video game you can say they bulge or
roll way they couldn't even tell the
smell of meat or if you want to add the
optional two extra characters sign your
food you're away for three months he
couldn't even notice the smell of meat
I'm not sure about the exact English
equivalent but that's what it means
so we'll just go with that Buju roll
away our tongue you that comes to us
from the spring and autumn period more
than 2,500 years ago a phrase lifted
from the Analects of Confucius that's
about a sacred a book as you can get as
far as the philosophy of this great sage
and that is going to be that for now and
for this season unless something
terrible happens I'll be back at a time
of my choosing to kick off season 3 not
sure what the theme will be but I'll
make sure to find 10 halfway decent
Chong Utah
fill it up until that time this is your
host Laszlo Montgomery inviting you to
go check out the other two fine shows
here at E cut media the China history
podcast in the China vintage hour and
more coming later probably take care of
you want and I'll see in a few weeks or
so for another season of the Chinese
sayings podcast